Retirement Planner. Team 11: Arley Sasson, Enrique Vargas, Xunjing Wu

Summary

Our project is a retirement-planning tool to be used by the average person (ie. not investment professionals) that wants to start
planning for retirement. The user interacts with the program through a GUI designed in JavaFX. 

The program has two main elements: user inputs and outputs. 

Inputs - The user enters information including his/her age, when they would like to retire, initial balance, what he can contribute to 
the investment account, how much he is planning on withdrawing upon retirement. The user will also enter a "Max Age" which will be the
age the program will use as the last year the user expects to receive retirement payments. In addition to this the program will also
ask the userfor information to determine their risk appetite, assessing how much he knows about investments and how tolerant he is 
to moves in the market. 

The program will use the risk-appetite questions to determine a percentage of equities and a percentage of bonds that the portfolio will 
have. The higher the risk-tolerance, the higher the percentage equities will be of the total portfolio. It will then build a portfolio 
and run Monte Carlo simulations to get an idea of what the performance can be in the future from now until after retirement. 

Outputs - The program will give the user calculations of what the expected balance of his portfolio will be at retirement and at Max
Age. It will also provide the range with a best-case and worst-case scenarios for these outcomes based on the simulations. In addition, 
the program will provide an amount on how much the user could withdraw every year from the account if he were to retire today. The 
program produces two charts. The first one will show the probability over time that the user will have enough money in his account to
receive the payment on any given year. The second chart will show the expected, best-case, and worst-case scenario values of the 
retirement portfoilio over time. 

Once all of the results have been returned. The user can then change any of the inputs as well as the percentage equity in the 
portfolio using a slider bar, and run the simulations again with the new parameters. 


How to run the program:
Step 1: Find the Main.java file and run it. Wait for a pop-up window.
Step 2: Provide all the inputs in the pop-up window, including Initial Principal, Yearly Deposits, Yearly Withdrawls, 
Current Age, Retirement Age, and Max Age.
Step 3: Answer the four questions by selecting answers in the dropdown menus, and click the "Equity Wizard" button. OR manually move 
the percentage equity slider to pick your desired percent of equity in your investment portfolio.
Step 4: Click the "Analyze" button. You should then see the investment recommendations displayed on the same window.
Step 5: Feel free to change any inputs and click "Equity Wizard and "Analyze" buttons again (in this order) to see how they impact
your portfolio recommendation.
